# German-Credit-Score-Data-Analysis

In this problem, we deal the German Credit Score dataset obtained from http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Statlog+(German+Credit+Data). There are 1000 rows, 20 predictor variables and 1 response variable. There are no missing values. The goal is to analyze the dataset to classify loans described by a set of attributes as good or bad credit risks by fitting various models and comparing their performances.
Here, A seed is set with the M no: 10714314 and randomly sampled into 2 datasets of 75% (training) and 25% (testing) each. As the data set, has been explored as part of previous assignments in the course, here we dive into model fitting directly. We fit generalized linear regression, classification tree, generalized additive models, and Linear Discriminant Analysis to compare how well each model fits the data based on performances measures such as Mean Residual deviance, AUC, Misclassification rate, Asymmetric cost, ROC for both the training data (in-sample) and testing data (out-of-sample) and 3-fold cross validation (GLM). A few of the major results are tabulated below in the attached files.

It is observed that in terms of misclassification rate all the models perform almost equally well in both in and out sample, though CART displays a better result in in sample but slightly worse rate in out sample data. Within Logistic reg. the three-fold cross validation performs similar to training-test datasets, though with a slightly lower AUC. The AUC for in sample is pretty good for all models and is also acceptable for out of sample as all are above 0.7, except for CART which is almost 0.7. Thus, in this particular sample, GAM and LDA seem to have done slightly better compared to the other models, though all seem to have done well with decent misclassification rates and high AUCs.

